I wanna talk to you a little bit
about friction fire the tools
that you need are you need your
hearth board a spindle and you
also need a nest with a nest
I like to start out with the my
longer fibers I'll just twist
those around form a little bit
of a pocket with the tenderness
you want everything pretty tight
so it the spindle and heart
wants something fairly light but
most important it's the grain
structure if you look at this
one you would see little grains
almost little holes and pours in
here so you want to make a
starter hole so I make it did in
there
you can sit on your butt like
this or another technique that
helps you get it up on above
that either on both knees or one
can sometimes for a little bit
more weight on the starter hole
just want to get that . or just
start smoking so the notch
basically i start by cutting at
the top so i can see it is
basically like cutting out a
piece of pie what it's doing is
allowing the pump to accumulate
one spot once you have that
prepared you want something to
catch the cold like this wood
chipper relief or something
set it down nice and secure we
want you ready and make sure
your hands have enough friction
on the spindle either spit on it
or if if you run out spit you
can have a little bit of water
nearby road that your hands
the key is you're putting a lot
more pressure on it so i'm
actually pushing really hard
inward and downward same time
that that driving force
what's going to use the pole so
as you're going once you see
that basically have smoke coming
out of out of the pile of punk
at that point you can stop
Tapani leftover punk on it keep
building you can see it's it's
red higher drop the cool in the
nest
seems counterintuitive but you
want to squeeze that nest you
really create a lot Cole way
down in there deep breath you
want to increase the breath
hardness as it starts spreading
that's it you want to turn it on
its side towards the wind you
had a fire that's it that's
that's friction fire in a
nutshell right there